Hi and welcome back.
We're going to take a look at Parshall's.
So the first thing we'll need to do is actually impled it.
So the Parshall's function is a higher order function and it isn't phunk tools module.
It's a how to function.
Why.
Well it takes a function as one of its parameters.
That's a higher order function.
So from frontals and both partial and let's just do the example that we did in lectures.
So let's say I have a function which takes in three parameters and all I'm going to do is just print
a b and c o.
Ok so I'll print that.
So if we call my fonk 10 comma 20 30 we'll just get 10 20 30 so we can reduce the number of arguments
needed to call my func by essentially specifying one or more of its values ahead of time and then using
those values plus whatever additional values need to be passed in.
How might we do that.
Well we can say define f and f is going to take let's say X and Y as two parameters.
And this is going to return to my funk and is going to pass in turn for a.
It's going to pass an X for B and why C so now we can call f 20 or 30 and we get 10 20 30.
We can call f 100 200 and we get 10 100 200.
All right so we've reduced the number of arguments needed to call my func by specifying a value for
a.
There's no magic around here.
My phunk still needs three values right.
It requires three values.
We can get around that.
However we might come into situations where we want to pass my phunk along to something else but that's
something else.
What's a function that only takes two values.
And of course we wouldn't be able to pass my phunk as is.
However we could pass it f because f only takes two arguments.
We'll see examples of that shortly.
How else might we do that.
Well obviously you could use a lambda you could say Oracle's lambda which takes an x and y and it does
exactly the same thing.
It don't have to return of course it's just going to return my func X come y.
So now we can say f 100 200 and what did I do wrong.
My phunk is missing one positional argument.
Yes.
Sorry.
We need to hard code the value for a right.
Remember what I said there's no magic.
Well yeah this is what happens right.
In this case it's still called my phunk who have only two variables.
Two arguments.
That's not going to work.
So three to find the lambda and now let's call it and not works as before.
So you can certainly do it this way using a def were using a lambda.
You can also use the partial function.
So how might we do that.
Well we say every cause partial.
And now we need to try to tell it what callable we're interested in.
In this case I want the function my funk and I'm going to pass in one value.
So that's a positional value and that's the first positional argument.
So it's going to get assigned to the first positional argument of my funk.
So now if we do this I can say F 20 coming 30 and now we have.
We have the output 10 20 30.
Now obviously I could do this I could say f Paschall my phunk are 10 20.
That would work as well.
So now if I call f now if only needs one right f is only going to need one argument.
We get that if we try and call f with let's say two arguments we're going to have an error as well.
Right.
Because what's going to happen is that the Paschall is going to pass in 10 20 and then again 10 20 so
we've passed in full positional arguments to my funk and my funk only takes in a maximum of three.
So of course that will fail.
OK so you might be wondering well you know I'm in the land there really isn't that much more complicated
to write or to understand than the partial here but things can get a little bit more complicated when
you have more you know esoteric arguments.
Maybe you've got a mixture of keyword arguments and you've got named arguments you know or you know
positional arguments that you want to pass in as named arguments or maybe you want to be able to swap
around maybe.
I want to specify what should be be but not.
And then pass an ANC So you start getting into things I get maybe a little more complex.
So let's take a look and we saw that in the lecture.
So let's try it out.
Def my funk.
Let's say it takes a and b and c and it takes a key word value one keyword only argument 2 and then
we'll take a variable number of these keyword arguments as well.
And all we're going to do here is just print a B print out for print K-1 K-2 and we'll print dogs out
as well.
All right.
So what the function does is simple but it takes you know some pretty complex arguments here.
So if we call my fonk let's say we pass in turn for a 24 B maybe we'll pass in 100 and 200 is extra
positional.
Then we have K-1.
Let's say a and k two is B and maybe we'll pass in a few extra Keywood only arguments as well.
Let's say K-3 equals.
I don't know which we make it let's say 1000 and K for equals two thousand k.
So when we have that here we have 10 and 20 which were are a and b are positional.
Then we had a very small number of positions that were put into a top or 100 and 200.
Then we had our key only arguments that were had they had values the string values a and b.
And then we had a variable number of keyword arguments that were written in a dictionary that would
put into a dictionary.
OK.
So now let's say that we want to be able to call my phunk but we want to admit having to pass in a and
k one.
So we want to be able to pass B star K to and start was but we don't want to pass in K-1 and we want
to try and basically almost like having a default value for them.
Right.
So how might we do that.
Well we can do that again.
We can use a lambda or we can use a function you know we can define a function we could say def f how
what are we going to do here.
Now I'm going to use the same names so we don't get confused.
So it's going to take in one positional only.
It's going to take in a bunch of extra positional is optionally.
Now we don't want K-1 we want k to.
So we'll take in a single keyword value here.
And we want the start Stockwell's as well.
OK.
Now I can rename them something else.
The name doesn't matter.
So let me do that.
Right so b I'm going to rename X K-2.
I'm going to call this keyword like that for example and then start OGs again.
And it really doesn't matter.
This could be you know vowels and this could be key word vowels.
K so we can do something like that.
So now how are we going to call my funk.
Well we're just going to return my funk.
We're going to hard code the value for a.
So I'm going to have quarter to 10 then I'm going to pass an X for B then I'm going to pass in on right.
So I need to pass.
Then we have the key word value k 1 we need to specify K-1 Maybe I'll make K-1 equal to 8.
And then K-2 has to be well this key word value there.
And then we need the starstuff KW vowels and I just noticed that I'm going to call this angst then I
should call that one as well or I'd need to call this one but.
OK.
So here we have reduced the number of parameters of arguments that we need to call my phunk.
So now we can call f and we can specify a value of twenty four.
What will be be right because this is the first positional arguments are going to go into X but X is
being passive.
The second positional argument to my phone.
So 20 is going to go into B then we'll put in an extra couple of positional arguments or 100 and 200
that's going to go into style vowels that will go into Starling's right style as we're going to start
vowels here which is Starns we need a keyword only argument.
So we need KW equals here I'll specify B.
Okay.
And then maybe we'll put in a few others we'll put in K3 equals 1000 and K four equals two thousand.
So now when we call that you'll notice we have exactly the same thing as before 10 20 100 200 in the
top or then we have A and B and then we have our keyword arguments or extras.
So that's how we were able to reduce the number of arguments that my phunk needs to be called by essentially
creating another function that acts as a proxy right.
It it it puts in certain values for some of the parameters of my funk.
And this way I don't have to specify them every time.
Now of course we can do the same thing using just a partial.
We can just say Paschall and this case what's the function.
Well we want the callable is my phunk.
So there we go.
And what are we going to do.
Well we need to pass in the first positional argument which is going to be a.
We want to hand-code that to 10 right.
So there we go.
It's 10.
Next we want to specify k 1 will k 1 is a keyword argument.
So it has to be passed in as a keyword and we just specify it with the same name.
Right.
That name K-1 has to match the name in my phunk.
So when we do that then we can specify let's say value of a and we leave it at that.
OK that's it.
So we didn't have to do the whole rigamarole of taking in the vase an X and kw right.
We just said OK you're going to call my funk cause the first positional And here's one of the key word
arguments.
Ok one equals a.
So now if we call f where.
Well what are we going to call it to call with 20.
So that's going to go into B because this is going to be now the second positional because 10 is the
fourth positional 20 then we're going to put in a few extra positions then we're going to specify k
2 because we really have k wanted to find people to be and it's a case three equals 1000 and K4 equals
2000.
And so when we do that we again get the same result as before.
You'll notice that we just have the same thing right.
So it's a little easier as you can see using a partial as opposed to using a function or lambda.
You can also do this using Alamdar.
The syntax is a little cleaner.
The next thing I want to show is that we don't have to always specify the forced positional in the Paschall.
You'll notice that I've been doing that so far so you might be thinking well it only works by specifying
the positional that's in the first place and I was I wouldn't be able to specify B without specifying
a and then having a being specified later.
No you can.
And the trick there is to remember that you can have named parameters even though and be oppositional.
Remember that they can still be passed in as named arguments.
So let's see an example of that.
Let's go ahead and define a function called Power or P.W..
And it's going to take in a base and an exponent.
And you'll notice these are just positional and what it's going to do is return base to the power of
exponent.
OK so now we have this function and we're going to define a few of the functions we're going to say
Square or let's call it Eskew equals.
So again we're going to do it partial.
We're going to call power.
But now I'm not going to specify I want to specify 2 for the exponent.
Now if I put two like this two is going to get passed into the base.
Right.
And if I say Eskew of 10 I'm not going to get 10 squared.
I'm going to get two to the power of 10 right which is 10:24.
So that's not what I want.
I want to be able to pass in two to the exponent and turn to the base.
So how might we do that.
Well we're just going to use a named variable right.
So we're saying no no 2 is going to go into xponent.
So now you'll notice that what's missing when we're calling power is the forced positional.
So if we do that and now we call square of let's say 5 we get indeed 5 squared which is 25.
Now we can do the same thing.
We can say Kubik is partial O.W. count of three.
But we have to specify that it's the exponent that's going to be equal to 3.
And so if we do cube of 5 we should get 125.
Now of course because we're using named parameters you could also just say cube base equals five right.
And we still get 125.
It's OK to make this a named parameter as well.
You've got to be careful though because there is one thing you can do.
We can save five base equals five and I can read a fine when exponent is going to make it two.
And I'm actually going to square not cube.
And indeed we get 25 out.
So you got to be careful because what's happening is that this xponent equals two is essentially overriding
what we had in the partial.
So even though the partial has basically kind of hand-coded or pre-determine the value of xponent you
actually still can't change it if you want to after the fact.
So it's not completely you know rigid that way.
So that's actually pretty cool.
In some cases the other thing too that I won't talk about is we talk about that in the letter is the
fact that if you use a variable You're got to be careful because the variable label isn't what gets
input or gets baked into the Paschall it's the reference of that label.
What I mean by that is let's say we have a equals 10 let's say equals 2.
OK.
And I'm going to make square equals partial of P though p o w were the exponent equal to a K.
So now I can call Square a 5 and we get 25.
Now if I make April to 3
you might think OK well nigh Farkle square of 5.
That's going to give me 125.
Right.
And the answer is no it's still going to be 25.
Because what got baked into the special isn't a it's whatever it was pointing to which happened to be
the memory address where the integer 2 was living.
That's what get what gets passed in the reference.
And we haven't changed what gets what lives at that reference.
Integers are immutable.
We cannot change what lives inside that integer.
Right.
We can change with a points too but we cannot change the integer itself.
So the Paschall will keep that to.
So just something to be careful of.
And it's really no different than when we were looking at default values for arguments in function calls.
Now if you have something that's mutable that's different than I alluded to then intellectual let's
try this out.
So let's go ahead and write a small function again.
We're just going to print this case I'm only going to take two parameters not three and I want to do
a partial where I'm going to pre-specified what a is and I'm going to specify a however by using a variable
just like we did.
So I'm going to set a equal to now a list let's say 1 and 2.
So as a mutable type no.
And I'm going to make every call to a partial of my func passing in a as the first positional.
So basically one and two is going to be in there.
So if I call f of 100 I'm going to get one into that list and then 100.
So now what I can do I can say ought to append.
Let's say arm 3 right.
So if you look at a is now 1 2 and 3 and if we call F again the same way before as before with a hundred
you'll notice that one to three is also showing up and that's normal right because partial is pointing
to the object that is referencing.
We haven't changed what is references when we append we just modify the object mutable we were allowed
to do that and hence therefore it shows up in the partial as well.
So again something to be careful of next.
Let's take a look at some applications of this and why we might want to be able to decrease the number
of arguments that a function as you know requires for example the sort of math the sort of function
in Python.
Remember that sort of the function it allows us to sort a list for example and then we can specify a
key and that key argument is basically a function that's going to take in one value one argument which
all the elements of the list we want to sort and it's going to return a value that is then going to
be used to determine the sold order of each element.
And we've seen that before.
So next let's look at some examples of applying Parshall's.
And let's see why we may want to reduce the number of arguments that a function requires in order to
be called.
A very typical example is two sold.
There is a built in function in Python we've seen it before called standard.
And we want to sort things and a and we can specify a sold order we can specify essentially a another
function that is applied to each element of the list that returns a value and then that value is used
as the sole key for the sorting.
So what I mean by that what we've seen it before but let's say that we want a we we have a bunch of
points on the x y plane.
Right.
We have a bunch of coordinates x y coordinates and we want to sort this list of coordinates based on
the distance from the origin so to work out the distance between two points we need two arguments we
need.
Point one point to nine this case Point two is always going to be the origin is going to be the 0 0
0.
If you think of Cartesian coordinates.
So this way we can look at the distance between a point in our list and the origin as a function of
really just one argument not two.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So we get to define the origin as just the point 0 0 0.
I'm just going to use a top.
There's no need to create a class or anything fancy for this.
I'm just going to use topples to represent x y coordinates.
So origin is 0 0 0.
And let's say we have a list 1 Common 1 and maybe 0 comic to type and then minus 3 and 2.
I really can't type minus 3 and 2.
OK.
Negative 3 and 2 0 0 0 we can have the origin in there itself and maybe something for there are 10 and
10.
OK.
So this is our list.
It's just basically a list of top balls which represent x y coordinates.
So now what's the distance between 1 1 and 0 0.
What's the square root of one minus 0 squared plus one minus zero squared.
Now in order to do the sort we don't actually have to use the distance we you know we don't have to
have the square root.
We could just use the N square root add value so 1 minus zero squared plus 1 minus zero squared.
Because the square root maintains soaring right so if a is less than B then squirt of A's going to be
less than squared of B and other way around as well the square root of A is less than square root of
B then is less than B as well.
So what's either way.
So let's define a function that's going to calculate the distance between two points.
So let's call it distance squared equals lambda and it's going to take two points x and y.
And how are we going to calculate that.
Well remember now x and y are going to be topples right.
X is going to be a top all y is going to be a top Also X is going to have its x y coordinate.
Y is going to have its x x y coordinates.
Maybe I should call this a and b.
OK.
So we'll will have an x y coordinate and B will have an x y coordinates.
So how are we going to do that.
Well we're just going to say x zero while not X not a zero minus B 0 squared plus a 1 minus be one squared.
Right.
That's going to be the square of the distance between two points and the Cartesian plane.
So now we could look at distance squared let's say of one column or one and the origin right.
Which is two right.
That would be correct if we have a right triangle right.
We're square with side of one side of 1.
Then the distance to hypothenuse the square root of 2.
But in this case we have it squared so it's just two.
So that's the distance so we can use that to sort this list how would we do that with say solid.
And here we want to do what we want to sort l now.
If we try and just do that that's really going to not work according to how we want it what it's going
to do by default is going to look at let's say the first element of the top all right.
And if the top is equal then it's going to look at the second element of the topple and so on.
It's not quite what we want.
We want to sort by the distance to the origin.
So we need to change the sort order.
And we can do that by using the key.
So we'd say key equals now key is what key needs to be a function that takes in a single parameter which
is going to be each element of the list.
So if we try and use distance 2 and say well I want distance 2 of the element and the origin.
That's not going to work because this isn't a function right.
This is a function call.
It doesn't know what is key has to be a callable it has to be a function.
So how are we going to do this.
We just want to calculate the distance between whatever the point is and the origin.
So we need some other function that's going to say hey calculate you know distance from Origin right
and distance from Origin should only take a single parameter which is the point whose distance from
the origin we want to find.
So we can do that.
We can certainly write a function that does that.
But since we already have the distance function why don't we use it.
So let's go ahead and do it this way.
Let's say this square well actually.
Yeah let's go ahead and say F equals partial distance squared.
And now what do I want to do well for the distance.
I want to make one of those points equal to the origin.
So yeah.
OK we'll make one of the points equal to the origin.
So now we have a function f that really not only requires a single point.
And when we do that we again get that this square is to.
So you see that we were able to reduce the number of arguments that distance square needed down to 1.
So now we can actually call f we can use F because f is a single thing.
So if we do that we now get the things sorted in the order that we want.
0 0 is the closest to the origin.
Then 1 1 then 0 2 then negative 3 2 and then 10 10.
So that achieves what we wanted but we wouldn't have been able to do it had we not reduced the number
of parameters that distance needed now obviously you could have done it using lambda for example you
could ask that lambda X and it's going to return Disston square of origin x.
We could do that as well.
And you would get the same effect here.
All right we get the same sort order.
The other thing too I want to point out is that you don't have to assign a to f..
So you could also do this.
So I wanted L key equals Paschall.
Or you could use lambda as well.
You could say key equals lambda x distance squared origin X it could just type this right in here.
OK.
So we could do it this way that will work as well or you can just use whatever we used here and type
this in here like so.
And this will work equally well.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.